Well, the words of today's text may have reminded you of the admonition in 1 Corinthians 6,
18, where Paul wrote flee from sexual immorality, or perhaps the words in 2 Timothy 2, 22, where
he wrote to Timothy flee from youthful desires. In today's text, a father is counseling
his son, and encouraging him to stay away from sexual immorality. In Proverbs 7, the
counsel is strengthened by means of an experience. The king describes a scene that he personally
witnessed, and we read about it in Proverbs 7, beginning in verse 6, so why don't we turn
here together? In Proverbs 7 and verse 6, and you can imagine a father encouraging his son,
and he relates this experience from the window of my house through my lattice. I look down, and as I
observed the naïve ones, or as the footnote says, the inexperienced ones, like you son, the
inexperienced ones, I discerned among the youth a young man lacking good sense, or in what
of heart. Now that's the first strike against the young man, isn't he's young? And as a result,
he's inexperienced, the two go together. But the father proceeds to describe what he observed and
the progression of events that led to a tragic outcome for the young man. So it says in verse 8, the
young man passed along the street near her corner. Now the her is a prostitute. What is he doing in the
neighborhood? Well, we're told that he marched in the direction of her house. Now the word March
implies a sense of confidence, doesn't it? Isn't it interesting that a young person is often
confident, even in risky situations? Why? Because a young person lacks experience, and can't always
foresee the implications of a situation or the outcome. Another factor is highlighted in verse 9,
in the twilight, in the evening, at the approach of night and darkness. So now we have inexperienced,
we have bad neighborhood. We have a young man who is confident, who evidently has no intention of
committing a morality, may even feel that he's in control of the circumstances. And it's night time.
I know as a young man where I grew up, everybody knew there were certain places or parts of town
where you didn't go after dark, because it was a recipe for disaster. In verse 10, the inevitable
happens, the young man is confronted by a prostitute. And rather than turning around and leaving the
situation, he engages with her in conversation. And in verse 22, we read the result. The culmination
of this progression of ingredients, suddenly he goes after her like a bull to the slaughter,
like a fool to be punished in the stocks. Now what do we learn from this word suddenly?
Well, simply this, that in any situation, we can cross a line where we no longer control the
circumstances. Rather, the circumstances control us. And isn't that what happened to the young man?
He put himself in a situation going down a path that eventually had or culminated in his
committing sexual immorality. And the seriousness of the matter is highlighted in the
B portion of verse 23 where it says it will cost him his life. So there's a ripple effect.
Certainly his relationship with Jehovah was damaged. His relationship with his family would be
affected. And there are even physical factors, illnesses that can result from sexual immorality.
Now note in verse 26, the father says she has caused many to fall down slain. And those she has
killed are numerous. And as our watchtower recently made the point, thousands are disfellowshipped
every year from Jehovah's family because of sexual immorality. Now a question that Brother
Kiddell addressed is it only the inexperienced that fall victim to this sad progression.
Well, let's look at an illustration that appeared in the watchtower article. You'll probably
remember this illustration. And here we see two married couples having suffered a gather,
a seeming innocent situation. But what are the two folks sitting closest to the camera,
Duhan? They're flirting, aren't they? You see the sister, she's twirling her hair,
her finger. And the brother is saying in essence, I only have eyes for you. And you can see
wedding rings on all four of those individuals' hands. It's a start down a slippery slope, isn't it?
And as a portrayed in the watchtower, this couple would later accidentally on purpose bump into
each other in the parking lot of the kingdom hall after an evening meeting, engage in conversation,
and that progressed to texting. Now, the good news is, as depicted in the watchtower, this,
these folks re-elost that they were headed down a dangerous path and took steps to corrupt it.
But wouldn't it have been better if they hadn't gone down the road, again, was?
It's a good reminder for all of us, whatever our age or circumstance. Here at Bethel,
we interact with ones of the opposite sex, and many of us are married, many are not.
But as we were reminded, we want to make sure our conduct is chased and pleasing to Jehovah.
Same holds true at the kingdom hall, and in our use of the Internet, and in our choice of
entertainment. See, we don't want to start down a path that could take us away from Jehovah.
I'll never forget a pioneer sister who used to counsel us young people in the congregation,
and we loved her. But she had an expression that she would tell us, if you're not going to burn
down the barn, don't strike the mat. Now, what's the point of her statement? Why start a progression
of events that we know will lead to sadness and tragedy? So we don't even go there,
and even if we're inexperienced, we can act wisely. What did the psalmist say? He said,
how can a young man keep his path clean by keeping on guard according to Jehovah's word?
So Jehovah's given us everything we need to remain clean. So talk to Jehovah about it,
be alert to identify, and determine to avoid dangerous situations.
And then we don't have to experience the sad outcome of the young man described in Proverbs
chapter 7. Instead, we can succeed in fleeing from sexual immorality.